Mithril update 2025-06-11 (#608)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2025-06-11-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2025-06-11-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

> This week, the Mithril team released the pre-release version of the `2524.0-pre` distribution. This version supports Cardano node v.10.4.1 and introduces a new Mithril client CLI command for converting UTxO-HD ledger state snapshots. It also includes various bug fixes and improvements.
> 
> They finished extending aggregator metrics to track different client types and completed preparations to stabilize the Cardano DB v2 client commands in both the CLI and API for production. The team also worked on implementing the publisher using the `n2c Local Message Submission` mini-protocol from the Pallas library for the DMQ node, and continued transitioning protocol message encoding to binary.
> 
> Finally, the team worked on refactoring the common library, and they continued refactoring the STM cryptographic library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team released the pre-release version of the `2524.0-pre` distribution. This version supports Cardano node v.10.4.1 and introduces a new Mithril client CLI command for converting UTXO-HD ledger state snapshots. It also includes various bug fixes and improvements.

The team completed the extension of aggregator metrics to track different client types and finalized preparations to stabilize the Cardano DB v2 client commands in both the CLI and API for production use. They also worked on implementing the publisher using the `n2c local message submission` mini-protocol from the Pallas library for the DMQ node, and continued transitioning protocol message encoding to binary.

Finally, they refactored parts of the standard library and continued refactoring the STM cryptographic library.
```
